docs/configuration.md, before:

# SolaKube configuration

In this page, we discuss all of the configuration files that are typically needed to be modified by the user and the kinds of configuration variables / attributes that are found in these files.

The first part of the cluster building process (initial creation and provision) uses Terraform and Ansible, so the settings go into their configuration files (**terraform.tfvars**, **vault.yaml**).

The second part of the provisioning process is Bash, Helm and KubeCtl based, these are mainly configured by **variables.sh**.


# terraform.tfvars (Terraform)

This is the main descriptor file for parameterizing the Kubernetes cluster itself but it also has effect on the OS-level provisioning of the virtual machines (VMs) we use on Hetzner cloud as cluster nodes.

This is found on the **terraform/clusters/<cluster-name>/terraform.tfvars** path and is defined per-cluster.

See detailed documentation about the attributes that can be used in terraform.tfvars in the file called variables.tf in the same folder. This also contains the default values for attributes that you are not required to specify in the tfvars file.

This is intended to be under version control.

The secret variables described in **variables.tf** are set via the TF_VAR_xxx variables defined in **variables.sh**.

# Ansible Vault password file

This is a file that contains the password for the Ansible vault for the processes that need to decrypt that file for secrets.

It is placed on the ~/.solakube/ansible-vault-pass path and its only content is the password in plain text.

It is shared among all clusters.

# Ansible Vault file - vault.yml

This contains variables that are needed for the Ansible-based provisioning process of the virtual machines (cluster nodes). Typically contains variables needed to configure OS-level services (e.g.: parameters of the SMTP server for sending emails from Linux system services via Postfix)

This is an encrypted file and may be placed under version control.

The variables and structure is documented in templates/vault.yml

Use **sk create-vault** for creating an empty vault file (you need to remove the one coming with SolaKube/Andromeda). 

Use **sk edit-vault** for easily make/change sensitive settings in the Ansible vault (tokens, passwords). These are only used for secrets that will be passed to Ansible.

It is shared among all clusters.


# variables.sh (shared)

This contains secret and normal configuration variables for a cluster. 

Automatically loaded when the "sk" script is executed with any sub-commands so that all Bash scripts, sub-scripts automatically have access to them.

Placed on the ~/.solakube/<cluster>/variables.sh path and is defined per-cluster.

A template for it can be found in the **templates** folder

The "TF_VAR_" variable definitions define variables for the Terraform execution. See documentation about them in the variables.tf file belonging to terraform.tfvars (above in the docs).  

SK_DEPLOY_XXX variables control which applications/components should be installed when the unified cluster-builder process runs.

This is not intended to be under version control.

# SSL key pair (id_rsa)

The id_rsa key pair is needed because its public key that will be defined in the VMs and they allow you and SolaKube/Terraform/Ansible to SSH into the machines for provisioning.

## Generating the keys

If you don't have generated RSA keys yet, generate them with this command: 

```
rsa-keygen
```

Name the keys as "id_rsa" and "id_rsa.pub"

If you accept the default paths, you will have them in the ~/.ssh folder, just where SolaKube expects them.

If you save them to a different folder, please change the reference to them in all Terraform, Ansible and SolaKube configuration files that refer to "id_rsa".

# Private Docker Registry

It is possible to define a central private registry for deployers in variables.sh:

~~~
export SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY "registry.example.com"
export SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY_USERNAME "admin"
export SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY_PASSWORD "secret"
~~~

If you deploy the Docker Registry as an internal registry (with the SolaKube deployer), there is no need to define the internal registry, it will be auto-discovered and the parameters set into the SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY_XXX variables.

Commit message:

Mailu: Initial SolaKube support for email services (SMTP, IMAP, POP3, Webmail interface...etc)

docs/configuration.md, after:

# SolaKube configuration

In this page, we discuss all of the configuration files that are typically needed to be modified by the user and the kinds of configuration variables / attributes that are found in these files.

The first part of the cluster building process (initial creation and provision) uses Terraform and Ansible, so the settings go into their configuration files (**terraform.tfvars**, **vault.yaml**).

The second part of the provisioning process is Bash, Helm and KubeCtl based, these are mainly configured by **variables.sh**.


# terraform.tfvars (Terraform)

This is the main descriptor file for parameterizing the Kubernetes cluster itself but it also has effect on the OS-level provisioning of the virtual machines (VMs) we use on Hetzner cloud as cluster nodes.

This is found on the **terraform/clusters/<cluster-name>/terraform.tfvars** path and is defined per-cluster.

See detailed documentation about the attributes that can be used in terraform.tfvars in the file called variables.tf in the same folder. This also contains the default values for attributes that you are not required to specify in the tfvars file.

This is intended to be under version control.

The secret variables described in **variables.tf** are set via the TF_VAR_xxx variables defined in **variables.sh**.

# Ansible Vault password file

This is a file that contains the password for the Ansible vault for the processes that need to decrypt that file for secrets.

It is placed on the ~/.solakube/ansible-vault-pass path and its only content is the password in plain text.

It is shared among all clusters.

# Ansible Vault file - vault.yml

This contains variables that are needed for the Ansible-based provisioning process of the virtual machines (cluster nodes). Typically contains variables needed to configure OS-level services (e.g.: parameters of the SMTP server for sending emails from Linux system services via Postfix)

This is an encrypted file and may be placed under version control.

The variables and structure is documented in templates/vault.yml

Use **sk create-vault** for creating an empty vault file (you need to remove the one coming with SolaKube/Andromeda). 

Use **sk edit-vault** for easily make/change sensitive settings in the Ansible vault (tokens, passwords). These are only used for secrets that will be passed to Ansible.

It is shared among all clusters.


# variables.sh (shared)

This contains secret and normal configuration variables for a cluster. 

Automatically loaded when the "sk" script is executed with any sub-commands so that all Bash scripts, sub-scripts automatically have access to them.

Placed on the ~/.solakube/<cluster>/variables.sh path and is defined per-cluster.

A template for it can be found in the **templates** folder

The "TF_VAR_" variable definitions define variables for the Terraform execution. See documentation about them in the variables.tf file belonging to terraform.tfvars (above in the docs).  

SK_DEPLOY_XXX variables control which applications/components should be installed when the unified cluster-builder process runs.

This is not intended to be under version control.

# SSL key pair (id_rsa)

The id_rsa key pair is needed because its public key that will be defined in the VMs and they allow you and SolaKube/Terraform/Ansible to SSH into the machines for provisioning.

## Generating the keys

If you don't have generated RSA keys yet, generate them with this command: 

```
rsa-keygen
```

Name the keys as "id_rsa" and "id_rsa.pub"

If you accept the default paths, you will have them in the ~/.ssh folder, just where SolaKube expects them.

If you save them to a different folder, please change the reference to them in all Terraform, Ansible and SolaKube configuration files that refer to "id_rsa".

# Configuring email ports

In case you don't want to install the Mailu server (email services) on your cluster, comment out the Mailu ports under the "open_ports" section in "vars.yaml". This will result in Ansible NOT opening these ports on the Kubernetes nodes during provisioning.

In this case, you may want to enable the Postfix Ansible role in "provision.yaml" so that the hosts can send email messages to you (the administrator).

NOTE: When Mailu is installed on the cluster, none of the Kubernetes hosts should run Postfix or any other server software that reserves the same email-related ports as Mailu uses (SMTP: 25/465, IMAPS: 993...stb).

# Configuring Email sending (SMTP)

YOu can configure SMTP based email sending via the SMTP_xxx parameters in variables.sh:

~~~
export SMTP_ENABLED="true"
export SMTP_HOST="smtp.mailgun.org"
export SMTP_PORT="587"
export SMTP_USERNAME="postmaster@xxxx.mailgun.org"
export SMTP_PASSWORD="xxxx"

~~~

All application deployers that can use SMTP settings will automatically pick-up teh values in these variables. 


# Email Services (Mailu)

You can install an cluster-internal SMTP server (and other email services like IMAP and webmail) by deploying Mailu.

See the documentation of the [Mailu deployer](mailu.md). 

# Private Docker Registry

It is possible to define a central private registry for deployers in variables.sh:

~~~
export SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY "registry.example.com"
export SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY_USERNAME "admin"
export SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY_PASSWORD "secret"
~~~

If you deploy the Docker Registry as an internal registry (with the SolaKube deployer), there is no need to define the internal registry, it will be auto-discovered and the parameters set into the SK_PRIVATE_REGISTRY_XXX variables.
