docs/disaster-recovery.md, before:

# Disaster Recovery

SolaKube integrates Stash as the base Disaster Recovery (DR) solution for typical filesystem based data.

The Postgres (and databases in general) has special needs in terms of disaster recovery, so it is not in the scope of the Stash based DR system (see below).

# Stash

Stash is primarily an operator for Restic but it also has support for local Kubernetes VolumeSnapshots.

It currently doesn't have support for consistent filesystem backups, so your workloads need to be stopped for backup or must be able to tolerate filesystem backups that are potentially captured over a longer period of time (as opposed to point-in-time filesystem snapshots).

See details in the [Stash Backups](stash-backups.md) page.

# Postgres (simple)

The simplified Postgres database service (the 'postgres' deployer) doesn't have built-in DR support, you need to roll your own.

# Postgres (pgo)

The CrunchyData Postgres Operator (the 'pgo' deployer) has built-in Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) level DR support via its integration of pgBackrest (WAL streaming + periodic full database backups).

SolaKube aims to automate the configuration of pgBackest when new Postgres database clusters are created via PGO by configuring the appropriate S3 access parameters.
 
See the details in the [CrunchyData Postgres Operator](postgres-crunchy.md) page.

Commit message:

Velero: Initial support, replacing Stash as the built-in Disaster Recovery tool

docs/disaster-recovery.md, after:

# Disaster Recovery

SolaKube integrates Velero as the base Disaster Recovery (DR) solution.

The Postgres (and databases in general) has special needs in terms of disaster recovery, so it is not in the scope of the Velero based DR system (see below).

# Velero

Velero has support for saving: 
- Kubernetes object descriptors
- files stored in persistent Volumes (PVCs) with Restic or K8s snapshots

It currently doesn't have support for consistent, online filesystem backups with Restic, so your workloads need to be stopped for backup or must be able to tolerate filesystem backups that are potentially captured over a longer period of time (as opposed to point-in-time filesystem snapshots).

See details in the [Velero Backups](velero-backups.md) page.

# Postgres (simple)

The simplified Postgres database service (the 'postgres' deployer) doesn't have built-in DR support, you need to roll your own.

# Postgres (pgo)

The CrunchyData Postgres Operator (the 'pgo' deployer) has built-in Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) level DR support via its integration of pgBackrest (WAL streaming + periodic full database backups).

SolaKube aims to automate the configuration of pgBackest when new Postgres database clusters are created via PGO by configuring the appropriate S3 access parameters.
 
See the details in the [CrunchyData Postgres Operator](postgres-crunchy.md) page.
