docs/gitea.md, before:

# Gitea

Gitea is a lightweight GitHub clone for managing Git repositories, pull-requests, code-reviews and providing developers with limited wikis and issue management.

Ideal for smaller development teams.

Its main purpose is Git repo management which can used for both code development and configuration version control.

The issues management side of Gitea is fairly limited (like GitHub) when compared to Redmine, JIRA or other full-blown issue managers. Thus, suitable only if the issues are mostly code-related and there is no need for complex task organization.   

Wiki functionality is also fairly basic so it is suitable only for simple documentation. For more-complex editing and document/knowledge management, Redmine may be a better choice.

Supported version: 1.12.2

# Dependencies

You need to have a Postgres database cluster deployed on your k8s cluster or as an external service. See the [Postgres page](postgres.md) for supported deployment options.  

# Configuration

The following variables control the Gitea deployment done by SolaKube:

## variables.sh

Basic Gitea variables:

~~~
#
# The password for the 'gitea' user of Gitea (the main administrative user).
#
export GITEA_ADMIN_PASSWORD="${SK_ADMIN_PASSWORD}"

#
# The email address for the 'gitea' user of Gitea (the main administrative user).
#
export GITEA_ADMIN_EMAIL="${SK_ADMIN_EMAIL}"

#
# The password for the 'gitea' DB user in Postgres that has permissions
# for the data stored in the 'gitea' database which is the storage place
# for all relational data of Gitea
#
export GITEA_DB_PASSWORD="${SK_ADMIN_PASSWORD}"

# The size of the persistent storage for the application
# export GITEA_PVC_SIZE="3Gi"

# Whether the built-in backup profile (Velero) can be deployed
export GITEA_BACKUP_ENABLED="Y"
~~~

In case you want to have email notifications from Gitea, have the SMTP_xxx parameters configured:

~~~
export SMTP_ENABLED="true"
...
~~~

# Deployment

In case the deployment is part of the initial cluster build (sk build), set the appropriate deployer flag before building the cluster:

~~~
export SK_DEPLOY_GITEA="Y"
~~~

In case of a separate deployment, manually execute the deployer :

~~~
sk deploy gitea
~~~ 

This will:
- Create a Postgres database called 'gitea' and a database user that has
  access to it
- Deploys Gitea on the cluster with a Helm chart
- Allocates a persistent volume for Gitea files
- Requests a certificate for the ingress if necessary

# Post-Installation settings

The 'gitea' user can administer/configure your Gitea instance.

# Notes

## Requested resources lowered

The requested resources slightly lowered compared to Helm chart defaults because a
bare-install, infrequently used Gitea doesn't actually need those resources and memory is 
especially precious:

~~~
resources:
    gitea:
        requests:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 300Mi
~~~
Raise these resources in case you need it.

Limits have not been modified, left at relative high values.

Commit message:

Parametrization: Introducing SK_ADMIN_USERNAME

docs/gitea.md, after:

# Gitea

Gitea is a lightweight GitHub clone for managing Git repositories, pull-requests, code-reviews and providing developers with limited wikis and issue management.

Ideal for smaller development teams.

Its main purpose is Git repo management which can used for both code development and configuration version control.

The issues management side of Gitea is fairly limited (like GitHub) when compared to Redmine, JIRA or other full-blown issue managers. Thus, suitable only if the issues are mostly code-related and there is no need for complex task organization.   

Wiki functionality is also fairly basic so it is suitable only for simple documentation. For more-complex editing and document/knowledge management, Redmine may be a better choice.

Supported version: 1.12.2

# Dependencies

You need to have a Postgres database cluster deployed on your k8s cluster or as an external service. See the [Postgres page](postgres.md) for supported deployment options.  

# Configuration

The following variables control the Gitea deployment done by SolaKube:

## variables.sh

Basic Gitea variables:

~~~
#
# The username for the Gitea admin user (the main administrative user).
#
export GITEA_ADMIN_USERNAME="${SK_ADMIN_USERNAME}"

#
# The password for the 'gitea' user of Gitea (the main administrative user).
#
export GITEA_ADMIN_PASSWORD="${SK_ADMIN_PASSWORD}"

#
# The email address for the 'gitea' user of Gitea (the main administrative user).
#
export GITEA_ADMIN_EMAIL="${SK_ADMIN_EMAIL}"

#
# The password for the 'gitea' DB user in Postgres that has permissions
# for the data stored in the 'gitea' database which is the storage place
# for all relational data of Gitea
#
export GITEA_DB_PASSWORD="${SK_ADMIN_PASSWORD}"

# The size of the persistent storage for the application
# export GITEA_PVC_SIZE="3Gi"

# Whether the built-in backup profile (Velero) can be deployed
export GITEA_BACKUP_ENABLED="Y"
~~~

In case you want to have email notifications from Gitea, have the SMTP_xxx parameters configured:

~~~
export SMTP_ENABLED="true"
...
~~~

# Deployment

In case the deployment is part of the initial cluster build (sk build), set the appropriate deployer flag before building the cluster:

~~~
export SK_DEPLOY_GITEA="Y"
~~~

In case of a separate deployment, manually execute the deployer :

~~~
sk deploy gitea
~~~ 

This will:
- Create a Postgres database called 'gitea' and a database user that has
  access to it
- Deploys Gitea on the cluster with a Helm chart
- Allocates a persistent volume for Gitea files
- Requests a certificate for the ingress if necessary

# Post-Installation settings

The 'gitea' user can administer/configure your Gitea instance.

# Notes

## Requested resources lowered

The requested resources slightly lowered compared to Helm chart defaults because a
bare-install, infrequently used Gitea doesn't actually need those resources and memory is 
especially precious:

~~~
resources:
    gitea:
        requests:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 300Mi
~~~
Raise these resources in case you need it.

Limits have not been modified, left at relative high values.
