docs/postgres.md, before:

# Postgres Database Service

Many applications need a database for the storage of their relational data (like.: NextCloud, Gitlab...etc).

SolaKube supports the deployment of Postgres on your cluster as a service and the deployers of applications that need a database automatically create an appropriate database and user for the application in the Postgres service.  

# Postgres (simple version)

A simple, one-node Postgres installation with the Bitnami images can be done with the "postgres" deployer module. This can be extended for your needs but it is meant to be as an entry-level solution.

Via the SolaKube deployer, you typically combine it with Hetzner Cloud Volumes or the Rook storage cluster so you should get a minimally acceptable fault tolerance since the DB itself is stored on distributed/HA storage and the Postgres pod itself gets rescheduled if the node fails under it.

With this solution, you need to roll your own backup/restore strategy.


# pgAdmin

Whichever Postgres DBMS setup you implement, you will probably need to have a web administrative interface for your DBs. 

The "pgadmin" deploy module deploys pgAdmin4 on your cluster.

Note: Your Postgres DBMS deployments are typically visible on a ClusterIP within the cluster. Check them on the Rancher UI or with kubectl.

Commit message:

PGO: Initial support for the CrunchData Postgres Operator

docs/postgres.md, after:

# Postgres Database Service

Many applications need a database for the storage of their relational data (like.: NextCloud, Gitlab...etc).

SolaKube supports the deployment of Postgres on your cluster as a service and the deployers of applications that need a database automatically create an appropriate database and user for the application in the Postgres service.  

# Postgres (simple version)

A simple, one-node Postgres installation with the Bitnami images can be done with the "postgres" deployer module. This can be extended for your needs but it is meant to be as an entry-level solution.

Via the SolaKube deployer, you typically combine it with Hetzner Cloud Volumes or the Rook storage cluster so you should get a minimally acceptable fault tolerance since the DB itself is stored on distributed/HA storage and the Postgres pod itself gets rescheduled if the node fails under it.

With this solution, you need to roll your own backup/restore strategy.


# Postgres with CrunchyData Postgres Operator

For a production-grade Postgres setup, SolaKube supports the simplified deployment of the [CrunchyData Postgres Operator](https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator) 

The operator supports streaming replication with proper fail-over, full/incremental backups, point-in-time recovery, multi-cluster DB user management...etc.

See the details in the [CrunchyData Postgres Operator](postgres-crunchy.md) page. 


# pgAdmin

Whichever Postgres DBMS setup you implement, you will probably need to have a web administrative interface for your DBs. 

The "pgadmin" deploy module deploys pgAdmin4 on your cluster.

Note: Your Postgres DBMS deployments are typically visible on a ClusterIP within the cluster. Check them on the Rancher UI or with kubectl.
